docs(block-node): add Production Node Operation Guide (#3187) (#3189)
hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node: docs/block-node/operations/production-guide/prerequisites.md

| PCIe                | 4.0 or higher (PCIe 3.0 may be bandwidth-limited)                             |
| Sockets             | Single-socket only - dual-socket configurations are not validated (NUMA risk) |

---

## Storage

|             Volume              |      Drive type       |                        Capacity                         |                 Purpose                 |
|---------------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| OS disk (separate, recommended) | SSD, RAID 1 preferred | 240+ GB                                                 | OS only - keep off the NVMe working set |
| Fast NVMe                       | NVMe SSD              | 7.5 TB usable                                           | Recent and live blocks, live state      |
| Bulk HDD                        | HDD                   | 100 TB minimum; 500 TB recommended (≈ 4 yr at 10 k TPS) | Compressed historic block archive       |

> **Enterprise NVMe sizing.** Drives marketed as "8 TB" often ship at 7.84 TB, 7.68 TB, or

> > 6.4 TB usable after overprovisioning. Acceptable as long as usable space is ≥ 7.5 TB.

Reviewer: We might note that useable space may be aggregate across multiple drives.

|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| NIC                                      | 2 × 10 Gbps minimum; 25 Gbps or bonded 10 Gbps recommended |
| CN-to-BN latency                         | < 10 ms P95                                                |
| CN-to-BN-to-Client latency               | < 25 ms P95                                                |
| Burst egress at 20 k TPS, 33 subscribers | ≈ 6 Gbps                                                   |
| Public IPv4                              | Static, dedicated to this Block Node host                  |

---

## Firewall and connectivity

The Block Node's only required inbound exposure is the gRPC port. Lock inbound access to
the Consensus Node source IPs provided by Hashgraph DevOps. Deny all other inbound by
default.

```bash
# nftables
sudo nft add rule inet filter input ip saddr { <ALLOWED_CN_SOURCE_IPS> } tcp dport 40840 accept

# iptables (one ACCEPT per source, then a default DROP for the port)
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -s <ALLOWED_CN_SOURCE_IPS> --dport 40840 -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 40840 -j DROP

# ufw

> sudo ufw allow from <ALLOWED_CN_SOURCE_IPS> to any port 40840 proto tcp

Reviewer: We need to modify this for multiport once #3198 merges.

```

Replace `<ALLOWED_CN_SOURCE_IPS>` with the CN public IP(s) provided by Hashgraph DevOps.

> Persist rules across reboots per your distribution's conventions.

Reviewer: This _should_ be handled by `solo-provisioner` provided the Block Node configuration file `/opt/hiero/block-node/application-state/known-publishers.json` is filled in.

Note that there is also:
- `/opt/hiero/block-node/application-state/inbound-partners.json` for other block nodes permitted to backfill from this Node.
- `/opt/hiero/block-node/application-state/outbound-partners.json` for Mirror Nodes and other partner-operated systems that should have priority access to the Block Node `subscribeStream` API.

Both Inbound and Outbound are supplemented with information for every node configured as a backfill source for this node.

- `curl` installed; root or `sudo` access required for Solo Provisioner commands
- No pre-existing Kubernetes installation, container runtime, or conflicting `kubelet`

> **Do not pre-install Kubernetes components.** Solo Provisioner installs and manages the full
> stack (kubeadm/kubelet, CRI-O, Cilium, MetalLB, Helm, kubectl, k9s, metrics-server). If any
> of these are already present, plan a clean reimage before proceeding.

---

## TLS decision **[OPERATOR + HASHGRAPH]**

Whether to enable TLS on the Block Node's gRPC endpoint is an operator decision that must be
coordinated with Hashgraph DevOps before installation.

> **Current TLS limitations by port.** As of CN 0.76, TLS on the **publish port (CN → BN)**
> is not supported - the CN PBJ client disables TLS globally, and enabling TLS upstream on this
> port breaks CN streaming. TLS on the **subscriber port** (MN → BN) is permitted. TLS support
> on the publish port is targeted for a future CN release (~0.78/0.79). See
> [Operator FAQ - TLS](../../operator-faq.md#does-the-block-node-support-tls-or-authentication-on-its-endpoints)
> for the full per-port status.

**If enabling TLS on the subscriber port:**

> - Generate a TLS certificate and private key for `<BLOCK_NODE_FQDN>:40840` - either a

Reviewer: Port will change once 3198 merges.

Also, the TLS termination must be established in the firewall, ingress, or load balancer; the Block Node application does not currently have the capacity to terminate TLS connections.

  publicly-trusted certificate or an org-issued certificate from internal PKI

> - Deliver the certificate, private key, and full chain to Hashgraph DevOps through the agreed

Reviewer: Important correction here:

```suggestion
- Deliver the certificate, and full authority chain to Hashgraph DevOps through the agreed
```

Private keys should never be communicated to Hashgraph.

> - Deliver the certificate, private key, and full chain to Hashgraph DevOps through the agreed

Reviewer 2: Following up with jsyncs comment
```suggestion
- Configure TLS termination at the firewall, ingress controller, or load balancer —
  the Block Node application does not terminate TLS connections.
- Deliver the certificate, private key, and full chain to Hashgraph DevOps through the agreed
```

- Hosting facility and geographic location approved (HIP-1081 diversity check)
- Operator `admin_key` structure recorded - BN registration requires signing the registration
  transaction with this key using the Hedera Transaction Tool; Hashgraph provides the signing
  steps at handoff

---

## Network preflight checklist **[OPERATOR]**

Run the following on the host before scheduling the Day Zero session. If any check fails,
resolve it before proceeding - if these fail, the install will too.

```bash
# Resolve container registry and chart repository hosts
for h in ghcr.io raw.githubusercontent.com github.com; do
  getent hosts "$h" >/dev/null && echo "  ok $h" || echo "  FAIL $h"
done

# Confirm outbound TLS reach to Grafana Alloy remotes
curl -sSI --max-time 5 https://<PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL> | head -1
curl -sSI --max-time 5 https://<LOKI_REMOTE_WRITE_URL> | head -1

# Confirm host's public IP
curl -sS https://ifconfig.me; echo

# Confirm port 40840 reachable from outside the network (run from a remote host)
# nc -vz <BLOCK_NODE_PUBLIC_IP> 40840
```

Also confirm:

- Static IPv4 is actually static (not ephemeral/cloud-assigned), externally reachable, and

>   shared with Hashgraph for expected-source ACLs

Reviewer: Technically this can be IPv6 instead of IPv4 if preferred and supported by the hosting environment.

## Firewall and connectivity

The Block Node exposes per-service ports. Lock inbound access to the **publisher port**
(`40984`) to Consensus Node source IPs provided by Hashgraph DevOps. The remaining
per-service ports are accessible to their respective clients. Deny all other inbound by
default.

| Port  |    Service    |                  Restrict to                   |
|-------|---------------|------------------------------------------------|
| 40984 | Publisher     | Consensus Node source IPs (Hashgraph-provided) |
| 40980 | Subscriber    | Mirror Nodes and peer Block Nodes              |

> | 40981 | Block Access  | Authorized clients                             |

Reviewer: Block Access and Subscriber have the same users.
Both should be available (with firewall) to general public; although provisioner will apply _traffic shaping_ to prioritize other BNs and configured Mirror Nodes.

Reviewer 2: Moved to https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node/issues/3276 , @deshmukhpranali to address in follow up

> | 40982 | Server Status | Monitoring and operators                       |

Reviewer: Server Status should be globally available, it's used by CN, MN, other BNs, and general public.

Reviewer 2: Moved to https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node/issues/3276 , @deshmukhpranali to address in follow up
